README.md, before:

# voxelmap-cache-render
Offline renderer for Minecraft voxelmap cache, with python (generate colormap) and Rust (fast render)

[中文使用方法简介](https://bbs.craft.moe/d/1921-voxelmapmod)

## rust renderer
### file struct
```bash
./
   voxelmapcache.exe
   resource/
       biome.json
       foliage.png
       grass.png
       index.json
       colormap.png
       weightmap.png
```
these files can be found in `py/`
### usage
1. generate picture from `.minecraft[/versions/<version>]/.mods/mamiyaotaru/voxelmap/cache/<server>/<world>/overworld/`

```bash
USAGE:
    voxelmapcache.exe render --input_dir <input_dir> --output_dir <output_dir> [OPTIONS]

    -i, --input_dir <input_dir>      input folder
    -o, --output_dir <output_dir>    output folder
OPTIONS:
    --env_lit <env_light>        environment light, from 0 to 15, default is 15
    --gamma <gamma>              gamma for gamma correction, default is 1.0
    -t, --thread <thread>        use multi-thread and set thread number, default is 1
```

2. generate map tiles with pictures from `step 1`
```bash
USAGE
    voxelmapcache.exe tile --input_dir <input_dir> --output_dir <output_dir> --path_mode <path_mode> [OPTIONS]

    -i, --input_dir <input_dir>      input folder
    -o, --output_dir <output_dir>    output folder
    --path_mode <path_mode>      generated path mode, can be "layer+", "layer+:<minZoom>", "layer+:<minZoom>,<maxZoom>", "layer-", "layer-:<minZoom>", "layer-:<maxZoom>,<minZoom>"
        example: layer mode, the original scale is marked as 5 and the max-level scale is marked as 0
            => "layer-:5,0" or "layer-:5"
        example: layer mode, the original scale is marked as 0, automatically scan all files
            => "layer+:0" or "layer+"
OPTIONS:
    --filter <filter>                filter used in scale, can be "nearest", "triangle", "gaussian", "catmullrom", "lanczos3"; default is "nearest"
    --use_multi_thread               whether to use multi-thread; if set, use fixed 4 threads
```

## python colormap generator

1. biomes_gen

   ensure `biomes.cpp` in the same folder and run `biomes_gen`.
   output `biomes.json`

2. cache_gen

```
USAGE: cache_gen.py [-l LOG] [-w LINEWIDTH] assets [assets ...]
    -l LOG          log file name; default is 'STDOUT'
    -w LINEWIDTH    number of baked-model each row; default is 32
    assets          resource packs, can be multiple.
                    notice that: 1. <version>.jar is one kind of resource pack; 2. specific.zip are required as the last resource packs to fix some model.
    
EXAMPLE: python3 cache_gen.py -l run.log Minecraft\.minecraft\versions\1.15.2\1.15.2.jar specific.zip
```
​	output `index.json`,`baked.png` ,`heightmap.png`,`colormap.png`, `weightmap.png`, `grass.png`,`foliage.png`

3. pick up `index.json`,`colormap.png`, `weightmap.png`, `grass.png`,`foliage.png`, `biome.json` into `resource` folder.

Commit message:

add check-exist option for 'tile'

README.md, after:

# voxelmap-cache-render
Offline renderer for Minecraft voxelmap cache, with python (generate colormap) and Rust (fast render)

[中文使用方法简介](https://bbs.craft.moe/d/1921-voxelmapmod)

## rust renderer
### file struct
```bash
./
   voxelmapcache.exe
   resource/
       biome.json
       foliage.png
       grass.png
       index.json
       colormap.png
       weightmap.png
```
these files can be found in `py/`
### usage
1. generate picture from `.minecraft[/versions/<version>]/.mods/mamiyaotaru/voxelmap/cache/<server>/<world>/overworld/`

```bash
USAGE:
    voxelmapcache.exe render --input_dir <input_dir> --output_dir <output_dir> [OPTIONS]

    -i, --input_dir <input_dir>      input folder
    -o, --output_dir <output_dir>    output folder
OPTIONS:
    --env_lit <env_light>        environment light, from 0 to 15, default is 15
    --gamma <gamma>              gamma for gamma correction, default is 1.0
    -t, --thread <thread>        use multi-thread and set thread number, default is 1
```

2. generate map tiles with pictures from `step 1`
```bash
USAGE
    voxelmapcache.exe tile --input_dir <input_dir> --output_dir <output_dir> --path_mode <path_mode> [OPTIONS]

    -i, --input_dir <input_dir>      input folder
    -o, --output_dir <output_dir>    output folder
    --path_mode <path_mode>      generated path mode, can be "layer+", "layer+:<minZoom>", "layer+:<minZoom>,<maxZoom>", "layer-", "layer-:<minZoom>", "layer-:<maxZoom>,<minZoom>"
        example: layer mode, the original scale is marked as 5 and the max-level scale is marked as 0
            => "layer-:5,0" or "layer-:5"
        example: layer mode, the original scale is marked as 0, automatically scan all files
            => "layer+:0" or "layer+"
OPTIONS:
    --filter <filter>                filter used in scale, can be "nearest", "triangle", "gaussian", "catmullrom", "lanczos3"; default is "nearest"
    --use_multi_thread               whether to use multi-thread; if set, use fixed 4 threads
    --check_exist         check if the same picture exist and then skip rewrite it
```

## python colormap generator

1. biomes_gen

   ensure `biomes.cpp` in the same folder and run `biomes_gen`.
   output `biomes.json`

2. cache_gen

```
USAGE: cache_gen.py [-l LOG] [-w LINEWIDTH] assets [assets ...]
    -l LOG          log file name; default is 'STDOUT'
    -w LINEWIDTH    number of baked-model each row; default is 32
    assets          resource packs, can be multiple.
                    notice that: 1. <version>.jar is one kind of resource pack; 2. specific.zip are required as the last resource packs to fix some model.
    
EXAMPLE: python3 cache_gen.py -l run.log Minecraft\.minecraft\versions\1.15.2\1.15.2.jar specific.zip
```
​	output `index.json`,`baked.png` ,`heightmap.png`,`colormap.png`, `weightmap.png`, `grass.png`,`foliage.png`

3. pick up `index.json`,`colormap.png`, `weightmap.png`, `grass.png`,`foliage.png`, `biome.json` into `resource` folder.
